Excimer Laser is the name given to the process of correcting the refractive errors on the cornea, which are called Myopia, Astigmatism and Hyperopia, caused by the errors in the structure of the eye. After correction, it is aimed that the person does not use distance glasses or contact lenses anymore.
Although it is a noticeably short procedure, it is necessary to reveal and evaluate the structure of the eye by performing a detailed conformity examination. With these examinations and tests, it is very important to determine the social indication, which includes the technical information required for the procedure, the health of the eye, as well as the expectations of the candidate.
The technical knowledge gained is necessary for which method can be used in laser application and for possible diseases to be experienced in the future after the procedure. The method to be used does not change the intended result, but it is very important to protect the future of the person's eye health. These methods are commonly referred to as:

a) LASIK
b) FEMTO LASIK
c) NO-TOUCH LASER
d) LASEK
e) RELEX SMILE

The laser beam cannot correct the cornea to the uppermost layer with current technology. Therefore, a thin layer called a “flap” should be removed and applied to the area under this layer. The methods listed above are the removal of the flap layer. The choice of method depends on the refractive error and corneal thickness. The flap thickness removed in each method is different, some flap incision thicknesses can be controlled while others cannot. However, today's technology has developed so much that uncontrollable methods have been gradually abandoned. Therefore, the results obtained are much more reliable.
Some corneal thickness is evaporated as the laser beam regulates the cornea. During flap removal, the cornea also becomes thinner. When the laser process is finished and the flap is put back in place, the remaining corneal thickness is important for the patient's future eye health, and the more thickness remains, the healthier it is. However, it is not recommended to go below 400 microns.
In the social indication, the expectations of the person, and the effects of his work and private life on his life after the laser should be evaluated within the doctor-patient relationship. The person must have realistic expectations. For example, people who do not use reading glasses due to their age may expect that they will not wear distance glasses after the laser procedure. However, while some people do not need distance glasses after the laser, the need for reading glasses may arise after the laser procedure. In this case, the patient should answer the question of whether it is more important to wear near or far glasses in his work and private life. For example, if someone who is constantly working in front of a computer uses reading glasses due to age, quitting distance glasses and wearing close glasses does not increase the quality of life of the person, on the contrary, it decreases it. Although there are techniques that will provide both near and far vision without glasses, if the patient has a constantly examining and questioning nature, this may not be considered an optimal situation for the patient. By simulating the post-laser situation of the doctor before the laser, a prediction can be made about how he will see after the laser.
Another social indication is that in cases where the corneal thickness is not sufficient to correct all eyeglasses numbers, the remaining numbers cannot be corrected again. There is also the possibility of using thinner glasses whether the person will be satisfied with his life with the remaining numbers. In cases where the cornea will not correct all the numbers, if the eye structure is suitable, smart lens replacement is an alternative solution. We will share the smart lens replacement process with you in another blog post.
Excimer Laser is an irreversible procedure, so examination and evaluation must be done very carefully. If corneal disease (such as Keratoconus), cataracts, retinal problems or a problem or disease in the visual point of the eye is detected during the conformity examination, different procedures may be recommended or not treated at all, depending on the condition. However, if all the results are suitable, the person can lead a more comfortable life with the results of the excimer laser process.
